#labels Featured
#Add a web UI to folders full of MP3 files

= Jukebox Script =

This works almost exactly like the videowebscript.  It iterates through folders, looking for MP3 files, and builds indexes of them, with a player.

Very much a work in progress.  Added a random play, and track seek.  Will probably add the buttons to the video thing, too.

= Setup =

[https://videowebscript.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/AIR/jukeboxscript/deploy/JukeboxScript.air You can get the contact sheet maker here.]

[http://get.adobe.com/air/ If you run it, and nothing good happens, you'll need Adobe AIR.]

= It Says I Didn't Configure The Installer Right! =

Actually, that's Adobe having fits about the self signed certificate being different. If you manually remove the previous version from the computer, you can install the next (and later) versions, just fine.

The idea here is that you made a play list, and you know damned well a computer will be able to play it, if it has a modern web browser installed.  The html output is pretty straight-forward, so you can edit the order it plays with a bit of copy/paste in a text editor.  

= How To Use It =

This works just the same as 'VideoWebScript', iterating folders and files, generating audio players, instead of video players, and builds a tree of 'Jukebox.html' files that play folders.

This is beta quality, and there are going to be bugs, for a bit.

  * [...] Pick a path.
  * [{{{*}}}] Open path in your OS' file browser.
  * [♫] Checkbox enable 'ding dong' at end.
  * Generate index.html Makes a single index.html with all of the ContactSheet.html files linked together.

It builds just like VideoWebScript.  I probably need to make a way to export and override the html templates, so it's easier to customize the appearance and behavior of what this spits out.

= TO DO = 

Parse some common 'Play List' formats, to export folders.